Update docs Modules.md (#377)
tomeshnet/prototype-cjdns-pi: docs/MODULES.md

A short summary of each module is directly below. Documentation for specific abilities of modules, or reference commands are further below.

## Table of Contents

> 

Reviewer: This will get removed by the tool I use to do it automatically, I would not do this.
```suggestion
```

- [Modules Documentation](#modules-documentation)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

>   - [Command-line flags](#command-line-flags)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Command-line Variables](#command-line-variables)
```

    - [Known install bugs](#known-install-bugs)
  - [SSB pub peering](#ssb-pub-peering)

> ## Command-line variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Command-line Variables
```

the text, that CJDNS is green with the text `[ACTIVE]`. if so, you have successfully connected to the remote peer, if it says `[INACTIVE]`, then there might be a typo in your config file. Make sure its formatted correctly (the config file is written using JSON).

## Yggdrasil

Yggdrasil is another piece of mesh routing software similar to CJDNS, but with potentially better performance and more active development. For more info visit the [website](https://yggdrasil-network.github.io).

## Yggdrasil subnetting

Yggdrasil will give each node (like your Pi, for example) an IPv6 address, but it can also give each node a subnet to distribute to its clients. This means that if you connect to the WiFi of your Pi, your device can get a unique Yggdrasil address, with all the benefits it provides. These include being able to access your device directly, without being NATed or blocked.

However, the Pi does have a firewall, so various commands need be run to allow access to clients. By default all Yggdrasil client access is blocked. See [**Firewall/IPv6/Yggdrasil Clients**](#yggdrasil-clients) to learn how to change that.

> ### Yggdrasil Interent Peering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Yggdrasil Internet Peering
```

Other peers can be found in the [public-peers](https://github.com/yggdrasil-network/public-peers) repo. Try to connect to only a few peers, and ones that are close to where you live.

Some will be IPv4, others IPv6. Head over to your mesh node yet again, and enter the following in your terminal:

```
$ sudo nano /etc/yggdrasil.conf
```

We are interested in this section of the config file:

```

> List of connection strings for static peers in URI format, e.g. tcp://a.b.c.d:e or socks://a.b.c.d:e/f.g.h.i:j.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// List of connection strings for static peers in URI format, e.g. tcp://a.b.c.d:e or socks://a.b.c.d:e/f.g.h.i:j.
```

Peers: []
```

This is where we are going to insert the code to connect to the peer node. Your code should look similar to this:

```
Peers: ["tcp://11.22.33.44:1234"]
```

> Exit out of nano and save the changes. Restart Yggdrasil with a `sudo killall yggdrasil` command. Pass a `status` command to terminal and you should see green text where Yggdrasil is printed with the words `[ACTIVE]` present. You are now connected to the remote peer with Yggdrasil. If you see`[INACTIVE]`, then you need to check your code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exit out of nano and save the changes. Restart Yggdrasil with a `sudo systemctl restart yggdrasil` command. Pass a `status` command to terminal and you should see green text where Yggdrasil is printed with the words `[ACTIVE]` present. You are now connected to the remote peer with Yggdrasil. If you see`[INACTIVE]`, then you need to check your code, or wait a bit longer for the restart.

You can check the status of the restart with `sudo systemctl status yggdrasil`.
```

Author: source line was incorrectly wrapped.  Corrected

> for typos, make sure there are "" around the whole entire string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For typos, make sure there are quotes ("") around the whole entire address.
```

## Yggdrasil IPTunnel

> This module uses the [CKR](https://yggdrasil-network.github.io/2018/11/06/crypto-key-routing.html) function of yggdrasill to allow you to tunnel internet from an exit node (server) that has access to the internet to another node that does not. To do this you must exchange public keys.  The public key can be found in /etc/yggdrasil.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module uses the [CKR](https://yggdrasil-network.github.io/2018/11/06/crypto-key-routing.html) function of Yggdrasil to allow you to tunnel Internet from an exit node (server) that has access to the Internet to another node that does not. To do this you must exchange public keys.  The public key can be found in `/etc/yggdrasil.conf`.
```

> To use this module you must have it installed. You can check to see if the file `/usr/local/sbin/yggdrasil-setup` exists. If it does then you have it installed, otherwise you need to have the module installed first.

Reviewer: Explain how to install it maybe?

Author: You install by installing the module when installing the node.

At present you officially "CANT" install after-the fact. So i would rather not write that down.

changed to read

> To use this module you must have it installed. You can check to see if the file `/usr/local/sbin/yggdrasil-setup` exists. If it does then you have it enable it during the protoype install.

Reviewer: Yeah, all I meant was noting that there is a module to be installed for this.

To modify the ports that are accessable from CJDNS modify the `cjdns` *table* in the IPv6 firewall config file. See the [**Firewall**](#firewall) section for more details.

### CJDNS Internet Peering

Other peers can be found in the [this](https://github.com/hyperboria/peers) repo of peers. Try to connect to only a few peers, and ones that are close to where you live.

> You'll see the peering information that will give you the address (ipv4 or ipv6) and credentials to connect to the node. You must either select to use just the ipv4 config, or you could use both. Now that we have this info, connect to your mesh device, and edit the following config file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see the peering information that will give you the address (IPv4 or IPv6) and credentials to connect to the node. You must decide to use the IPv4 or IPv6 Internet address, in almost all cases you want IPv4. Now that we have this info, connect to your mesh device, and edit the following config file:
```

```
$ sudo nano /etc/cjdroute.conf
```

This file contains everything that is required for CJDNS to run, so be careful not to remove anything else, unless you know what you are doing. You need to head down to this line:

```
// Nodes to connect to (IPv4 only).
"connectTo":
{
```

> This is where you input the ipv4 address. There is also a ipv6 field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where you input the IPv4 address. There is also a IPv6 field, if you are using the IPv6 address instead:
```

```
// Nodes to connect to (IPv6 only).
"connectTo":
{
```

> Insert the respective code, and the save (ctrl+X to save, then ctrl+S to confirm file name, then ENTER to confirm changes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Insert the respective code, and the save (`ctrl-x` to save, then `y` to confirm file name, then `enter` to confirm changes).
```

> your code should look somewhat like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your code should look somewhat like this:
```

```
// Nodes to connect to (IPv4 only).
"connectTo":
  {
                "123.123.123.123:54321": {
                  "peerName": "cosmetic-name.com",
                  "login": "peer-login",
                  "password": "peer-passwowrd-here",
                  "publicKey": "1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012.k"
                }
  }
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that multiple peers will need a comma and the end of the `}` for each peer except the last one!

```

> Next you should restart CJDNS with a `sudo systemctl restart cjdns` command. This will reload CJDNS with the new config file. Run a `status` command on your node, and make sure when it prints out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next you should restart CJDNS with the `sudo systemctl restart cjdns` command. This will reload CJDNS with the new config file. Run the `status` command on your node, and make sure when it prints out
```

> the text, that CJDNS is green with the text `[ACTIVE]`. if so, you have successfully connected to the remote peer, if it says `[INACTIVE]`, then there might be a typo in your config file. Make sure its formatted correctly (the config file is written using JSON).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the text, that CJDNS is green with the text `[ACTIVE]`. if so, you have successfully connected to the remote peer, if it says `[INACTIVE]`, then there might be a typo in your config file. Make sure it's formatted correctly, according to the JSON rules. You can run `sudo systemctl status cjdns` to see more info about why it failed.
```

However, the Pi does have a firewall, so various commands need be run to allow access to clients. By default all Yggdrasil client access is blocked. See [**Firewall/IPv6/Yggdrasil Clients**](#yggdrasil-clients) to learn how to change that.

### Yggdrasil Internet Peering

Other peers can be found in the [public-peers](https://github.com/yggdrasil-network/public-peers) repo. Try to connect to only a few peers, and ones that are close to where you live.

Some will be IPv4, others IPv6. Head over to your mesh node yet again, and enter the following in your terminal:

```
$ sudo nano /etc/yggdrasil.conf
```

We are interested in this section of the config file:

```
// List of connection strings for static peers in URI format, e.g. tcp://a.b.c.d:e or socks://a.b.c.d:e/f.g.h.i:j.
Peers: []
```

This is where we are going to insert the code to connect to the peer node. Your code should look similar to this:

```
Peers: ["tcp://11.22.33.44:1234"]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that this is JSON, and that multiple peers will need commas after the closing quote, except for the last peer.

```

Exit out of nano and save the changes. Restart Yggdrasil with a `sudo systemctl restart yggdrasil` command. Pass a `status` command to terminal and you should see green text where Yggdrasil is printed with the words `[ACTIVE]` present. You are now connected to the remote peer with Yggdrasil. If you see`[INACTIVE]`, then you need to check your code for typos, make sure there are qoute `""` around the whole entire address.  You may also need to wait a bit longer for the restart to complete.

## Yggdrasil IPTunnel

> This module uses the [CKR](https://yggdrasil-network.github.io/2018/11/06/crypto-key-routing.html) function of yggdrasill to allow you to tunnel internet from an exit node (server) that has access to the internet to another node that does not. To do this you must exchange public keys.  The public key can be found in /etc/yggdrasil.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module uses the [CKR](https://yggdrasil-network.github.io/2018/11/06/crypto-key-routing.html) function of Yggdrasil to allow you to tunnel Internet from an exit node (server) that has access to the Internet to another node that does not. To do this you must exchange public keys.  The public key can be found in /etc/yggdrasil.conf
```

Default: ygg0
Value: `Any interface on the system`

#### IPTunnel - Server

> The IPTunnel server acts as a exit node.  It will accept connections from other yggdrasil peeres listed in **/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.server** and form a tunnnel between them allowing the remote peer to access internet available on this node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IPTunnel server acts as a exit node. It will accept connections from other Yggdrasil peers listed in `/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.server`, and form a tunnel between them, allowing the remote peer to access Internet available on this node.
```

Author: Dam keyboarding class!

 To configure as a server (exit Internet traffic for other nodes),

>  1. create **/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.server**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Create `/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.server`
```

>  2. fill it with newline-separated list of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 2. Fill it with newline-separated list of:
```

>    - EncryptionPublicKey key of the clients (found in /etc/yggdrasil.conf on the client's device)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `EncryptionPublicKey` of the clients (found in `/etc/yggdrasil.conf` on the client's device)
```

   - Single white space
   - IPv4 Address in the 10.10.0.0/24 range that will be assigned to the client
   - *optional* Single white space
   - *optional* IPv6 Address in the fd00::/64 range that will be assigned to the client
   - *optional* Single white space

>    - *optional* IPv6 Subnet that will be routed through the client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - *optional* IPv6 subnet that will be routed through the client
```

Example
```
1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234 10.10.0.1 fd00::1  
2345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345 10.10.0.2  
3456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123467 10.10.0.3 fd00::3 fd00:1::/64  
```

**Note:** You do not have to assign an IPv6 address to all nodes, ones without an IPv6 address will simply not be issued one.

#### IPTunnel - Client

> The IPTUnnel client will establish a link to a server, and tunnel all traffic not currently in the routing table to this the server node. In most setups this means any traffic that is not LAN traffic that the node is on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IPTunnel client will establish a link to a server, and tunnel all traffic not currently in the routing table to this the server node. In most setups this means any traffic that is not for the local network.

To configure as a client (use an exit server to access the Internet),

> 1. create **/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.client**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create `/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.client`
```

> 1. place a single line containing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Place a single line containing
```

>    - EncryptionPublicKey of the server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `EncryptionPublicKey` of the server
```

Default: ygg0
Value: `Any interface on the system`

#### IPTunnel - Server

> The IPTunnel server acts as a exit node. It will accept connections from other yggdrasil peeres listed in **/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.server** and form a tunnnel between them allowing the remote peer to access internet available on this node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IPTunnel server acts as a exit node. It will accept connections from other Yggdrasil peers listed in **/etc/yggdrasil.iptunnel.server** and form a tunnel between them allowing the remote peer to access Internet available on this node.
```

4567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567 10.10.0.4 fd00::3 fd00:1::/64
```

> ##### IPTunnel Client and Interent Peer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### IPTunnel Client and Internet Peer
```

> If you wish to run an IPTunnel Client on the same node as as an Internet Peer, you will need to create a route to that node over the internet connection available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to run an IPTunnel client on the same node as as an Internet peer, you will need to create a route to that node over the Internet connection available.
```

> The reason of doing this is to allow the Yggdrasil internet peer to not try to use the new path to the internet that it aquies by forming the tunnel to peer.  The peer conenction cannot shuttle tunnel connections of the same tunnel.

Reviewer: This sentence is unclear, and I am not sure what it means. It should be reworked.

Author: it was 3 paragraphs before.

how about this

> If a route is not created to the peer, Yggdrasil peering will try to route over the tunnel.  Since the tunnel is depended on the peer the peer cannot function over the tunnel. Peer tries to feed packets over the tunnel, that tries to feed packets to the peer causing both to fail.

Reviewer: > This must be done, because since all Internet traffic will be redirected over the tunnel and a route is not created to the peer, Yggdrasil peering will try to route over the tunnel. Since the tunnel depends on the peer, the peer will not function, which will collapse the tunnel. In other words, the peer tries to feed packets over the tunnel, that tries to feed packets to the peer, causing both to fail.

Does that work? I find it's a bit more clear, and I corrected some grammar.

> 

Reviewer: Run this command:

```
sudo route add 123.123.123/24 gw 192.168.0.1
```

> Were

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where:
```

> *123.123.123* is the ip address of the yggdrasil peer  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `123.123.123` is the IP address of the Yggdrasil peer  
```

> *192.168.0.1* is the current active gateway to the internet  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `192.168.0.1` is the current active gateway to the Internet  
```

4567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567 10.10.0.4 fd00::3 fd00:1::/64
```

##### IPTunnel Client and Internet Peer

> If you wish to run an IPTunnel client on the same node as as an Internet Peer, you will need to create a route to that node over the internet connection available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to run an IPTunnel client on the same node as as an Internet peer, you will need to create a route to that node over the Internet connection available.
```

> Because all internet traffic is redirected over the tunnel and a route is not created to the peer, Yggdrasil peering will try to route over the tunnel. Since the tunnel is depended on the peer the peer will not function collapsing the tunnel. Another-words the peer tries to feed packets over the tunnel, that tries to feed packets to the peer causing both to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This must be done because since all Internet traffic will be redirected over the tunnel and a route is not created to the peer, Yggdrasil peering will try to route over the tunnel. Since the tunnel depends on the peer, the peer will not function, which will collapse the tunnel. In other words, the peer tries to feed packets over the tunnel, that tries to feed packets to the peer, causing both to fail.
```

Add the following command to your `/etc/rc.local`
```
route add 123.123.123/24 gw 192.168.0.1
```
Where:
`123.123.123` is the IP address of the Yggdrasil peer  

> `192.168.0.1` is the current active gateway to the Internet  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`192.168.0.1` is the current active gateway to the Internet, ie your router.
```

You can specify a protocol, but that would limit the ports that are open.

## Grafana

> **NOTE**  Older verison used for i386 deployment due to lack of support for officialy binaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:**  An older version is used for i386 deployment due to lack of official support in the newer version.

[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a dashboard used to display Prometheus collected data.  Once installed you can visit `http://<yournodeip>:3000`.  Default login is `admin`/`admin`. You can skip the welcome screen/wizard by clicking on the Grafana logo at the top left corner.

### Known install bugs

> At times Grafana will not start up properly during install and the dashboards will not install.  To install them manually run the following commands from the `prototype-cjdns-pi/scripts/grafana` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At times Grafana will not start up properly during install and the dashboards will not install.  To install them manually run the following commands from inside the `prototype-cjdns-pi/scripts/grafana` folder
```

```
BASE_DIR=`pwd`
curl --user admin:admin -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-binary "@$BASE_DIR/datasource.json" http://localhost:3000/api/datasources
curl --user admin:admin -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-binary "@$BASE_DIR/dashboard.json" http://localhost:3000/api/dashboards/db
```

### Allow Anonymous access

To allow read-one guest access without a password edit `/etc/grafana/grafana.ini`

Uncomment/Change settings as follows

```
[auth.anonymous]
# enable anonymous access
enabled = true
# specify organization name that should be used for unauthenticated users
org_name = Main Org.
# specify role for unauthenticated users
org_role = Viewer
```

> ## Prometheus

Reviewer: A description and link explaining what it is and what it does on our nodes should be here.

> **NOTE** Prometheus Server does not support i386 installation because there is no known binary for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Prometheus Server does not support i386 installation because there is no known binary for it.
```

> To make prometheus dynamically change the nodes it will monitor during runtim, you can tell it to read from a file and update it's targets every time the file is changed.  Make the following change in `/opt/prometheus/prometheus.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make Prometheus dynamically change the nodes it will monitor during runtime, you can tell it to read from a file and update its targets every time the file is changed.  Make the following change in `/opt/prometheus/prometheus.yml`.
```

> Change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change this:
```

```
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['[fc0e:741f:1953:b0be:8958:2265:14cf:1e94]:9100']
```

> to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to this:
```

```
    file_sd_configs:
        - files:
            - "/etc/prometheus.json"
```

> Then create a /etc/prometheus.json file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then create a `/etc/prometheus.json` file:
```

```
[
 {
  "targets": [
   "[fc0e:741f:1953:b0be:8958:2265:14cf:1e94]:9100",
   "[fc00:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000]:9100"
  ]
 }
]
```

> Finally restart the prometheus service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, restart the Prometheus service: Run `sudo systemctl restart prometheus-server`
```

> ```sudo systemctl restart prometheus-server```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you wish to monitor multiple nodes simply add additioanl nodes to the json. Remember the last entry does not have a ,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to monitor multiple nodes, simply add more nodes to the JSON file. Remember the last entry does not have a `,`.
```

> ## SSB pub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Secure Scuttlebutt
```

> [SSB](https://www.scuttlebutt.nz/) is a  decent(ralised) secure gossip platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SSB](https://www.scuttlebutt.nz/) is a  decent(ralised) secure gossip platform. It allows for the offline and decentralized distribution and copying of data in a "feeds" format. In practice it is often used as a social network similar to Facebook (but P2P), but has many other applications.
```

Author: Nice addition thanks

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Our nodes can run a Scuttlebutt pub, which allows your messages to propagate through the mesh network, if your node is connected to one. You can download a client as the link above will tell you, and if you installed the SSB module, you'll see the pub running on your Pi in the sidebar of the client when you connect to your node's WiFi network. This pub will sync with users of it's network, and with mesh nodes nearby, spreading your messages and helping you get new ones.
```

### SSB pub peering

> Beyond connecting over with mesh peers, or peers on the LAN, you will need to connect to a "pub" to get your Scuttlebutt feed across the internet. You can find a list of public pubs [here](https://github.com/ssbc/ssb-server/wiki/Pub-Servers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond connecting with mesh peers, or peers on the LAN, you will need to connect to a "pub" to get your Scuttlebutt feed across the Internet. You can find a list of public pubs to join [here](https://github.com/ssbc/ssb-server/wiki/Pub-Servers).
```

To make Prometheus dynamically change the nodes it will monitor during runtime, you can tell it to read from a file and update its targets every time the file is changed. Make the following change in `/opt/prometheus/prometheus.yml`.

Change this:
```
    static_configs:
    - targets: ['[fc0e:741f:1953:b0be:8958:2265:14cf:1e94]:9100']
```
to this:

```
    file_sd_configs:
        - files:
            - "/etc/prometheus.json"
```

Then create a `/etc/prometheus.json` file:

```
[
 {
  "targets": [
   "[fc0e:741f:1953:b0be:8958:2265:14cf:1e94]:9100",
   "[fc00:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000]:9100"
  ]
 }
]
```
Finally, restart the Prometheus service: Run `sudo systemctl restart prometheus-server`

If you wish to monitor multiple nodes, simply add more nodes to the JSON file. Remember the last entry does not have a `,`.

## Secure Scuttlebutt
[SSB](https://www.scuttlebutt.nz/) is a decent(ralised) secure gossip platform. It allows for the offline and decentralized distribution and copying of data in a "feeds" format. In practice it is often used as a social network similar to Facebook (but P2P), but has many other applications.

> Our nodes can run a Scuttlebutt pub, which allows your messages to propagate through the mesh network, if your node is connected to one. You can download a client as the link above will tell you, and if you installed the SSB module, you'll see the pub running on your Pi in the sidebar of the client when you connect to your node's WiFi network. This pub will sync with users of it's network, and with mesh nodes nearby, spreading your messages and helping you get new ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our nodes can run a Scuttlebutt pub, which allows your messages to propagate through the mesh network, if your node is connected to one. You can download a [client](https://www.scuttlebutt.nz/applications) like [Patchwork](https://github.com/ssbc/patchwork), and if you installed the SSB module, you'll see the pub running on your Pi in the sidebar of the client when you connect to your node's WiFi network. This pub will sync with users of its network, and with mesh nodes nearby, spreading your messages and helping you get new ones.
```
